Review agent guidelines (#8973)
temporalio/temporal: .github/copilot-instructions.md

Reviewer: I would also add: "Do not export anything that doesn't need to be exported".

> # Code Review Guidelines

Author: From PR description

> Note that the source of truth file is in .github since it's the only agent that does not support file references.

So it would have to be a copy :-/ I'll say that's outside of the scope for now to not block this PR to serve its original purpose.

- Never use suite assertion methods (`s.NoError`, `s.Equal`) from goroutines - causes panics
- Use `EventuallyWithT` when you need assertions inside eventually blocks, and use that block's `t`
- Use `require.ErrorAs(t, err, &specificErr)` for specific error type checks
- Don't use `assert` when you need to stop execution - use `require`
- Add comments explaining why `Eventually` is needed (e.g., eventual consistency)

## 4. Inline Code / Avoid Abstractions

- Repeat strings instead of adding constants for single use
- Inline struct field assignments when possible
- Avoid unnecessary wrapper types and generic structs
- Don't add dependencies for 5 lines of code - "just write 5 lines of code instead of adding more dependency bloat"
- Don't create testsuite-level helpers that can't be safely used in subtests
- Prefer explicit code over reflection

## 5. Proper Error Handling

- Use standard error types (`InvalidArgument`, `NotFound`, `FailedPrecondition`) over custom error types
- Mark errors as non-retryable when task shouldn't retry in queue
- Wrap errors with context when there's something interesting or informative to add, e.g. `fmt.Errorf("multi-operation part 2: %w", err)`

> - Use early returns over nested if/else blocks

Reviewer: There's a linter for this

```suggestion
```

- Don't panic in library code - return errors and let caller decide
- Validate early in handlers, not deep in business logic

## 6. Consistency with Codebase

- Follow existing patterns: "We have been passing through the frontend request in other libraries. Let's keep the same pattern here"
- Don't separate temporal/non-temporal imports with blank lines (team decision)
- Use existing utilities before creating new ones
- Follow CLI documentation conventions (capitalize proper nouns)
- Match existing metric tag formats (CONSTANT_CASE for enum values)
- Use the same error message style (no punctuation for single sentences)

## 7. API and Proto Design

- Document all proto fields with comments
- Use proper field names: `request_id` not `requestId`, `schedule_time` not `scheduledTime`
- Don't expose internal concepts in user-facing errors: "LowCardinalityKeyword is not a user facing concept"
- Accept event attributes structs instead of growing function signatures
- Use `map[string]Empty` over `[]string` when you might add metadata later
- Prefer enums over int/string for well-known values

## 8. Concurrency and Safety

- Use `atomic.Value` for concurrent access, not regular variables

> - Don't do IO while holding locks - use immediate tasks instead

Reviewer 2: I believe this should be, "use side effect tasks"

Author: Is "immediate task" an HSM, and "side effect task" a CHASM term? I haven't worked with either.

Reviewer 2: An immediate task is simply one that should run "ASAP", but it doesn't define when ASAP precisely is, that's up to the executor. Any CHASM pure task will hold a lock for its duration, so an "immediate *pure* task" wouldn't be good for IO, whereas an "immediate *side effect* task" will execute in a separate transaction, without holding a lock.

- Never use suite assertion methods (`s.NoError`, `s.Equal`) from goroutines - causes panics
- Use `EventuallyWithT` when you need assertions inside eventually blocks, and use that block's `t`
- Use `require.ErrorAs(t, err, &specificErr)` for specific error type checks
- Don't use `assert` when you need to stop execution - use `require`
- Add comments explaining why `Eventually` is needed (e.g., eventual consistency)

## 4. Inline Code / Avoid Abstractions

- Repeat strings instead of adding constants for single use: "nit: I would just repeat the string instead of adding a layer of indirection"
- Inline struct field assignments when possible
- Avoid unnecessary wrapper types and generic structs
- Don't add dependencies for 5 lines of code - "just write 5 lines of code instead of adding more dependency bloat"
- Don't create testsuite-level helpers that can't be safely used in subtests
- Prefer explicit code over reflection: "It would be easier to follow without all of the reflection"

## 5. Proper Error Handling

- Use standard error types (`InvalidArgument`, `NotFound`, `FailedPrecondition`) over custom error types
- Mark errors as non-retryable when task shouldn't retry in queue

> - Always provide context with errors: `fmt.Errorf("context: %w", err)`

Reviewer 3: small quibble here: errors should be wrapped with context when appropriate (when there's something interesting/informative about the context), not all the time. that produces super long error strings with multiple pieces that just repeat the same thing over and over.

```suggestion
- Wrap errors with context when there's something interesting or informative to add, e.g. `fmt.Errorf("multi-operation part 2: %w", err)`
```

- Use early returns over nested if/else blocks
- Don't panic in library code - return errors and let caller decide
- Validate early in handlers, not deep in business logic

## 6. Consistency with Codebase

- Follow existing patterns: "We have been passing through the frontend request in other libraries. Let's keep the same pattern here"
- Don't separate temporal/non-temporal imports with blank lines (team decision)
- Use existing utilities before creating new ones
- Follow CLI documentation conventions (capitalize proper nouns)
- Match existing metric tag formats (CONSTANT_CASE for enum values)
- Use the same error message style (no punctuation for single sentences)

## 7. API and Proto Design

- Document all proto fields with comments
- Use proper field names: `request_id` not `requestId`, `schedule_time` not `scheduledTime`
- Don't expose internal concepts in user-facing errors: "LowCardinalityKeyword is not a user facing concept"
- Accept event attributes structs instead of growing function signatures

> - Use `map[string]Empty` over `[]string` when you might add metadata later

Reviewer 3: Are we talking about protos or go code here? It's not clear. And I'm a little skeptical of this as a rule in either case. Proto maps vs repeated fields are pretty different and there's a bunch of factors you'd want to consider, not just adding metadata.

In Go code, it's easy to change later so why make a rule?

- Prefer enums over int/string for well-known values

## 8. Concurrency and Safety

> - Use `atomic.Value` for concurrent access, not regular variables

Reviewer 3: In general, atomics are an advanced concurrency thing. Most code should default to using mutexes, and only reach for atomics when they greatly simplify some particular pattern, or there's a performance concern.
